---
layout: publication
year: 2020
journal: arXiv
link: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.01713"
authors: Hanyi Luo*, Mengzhan Liufu*, Dongrong Li
order: co-first
title: "Intelligent Online Food Delivery System: A Dynamic Model to Generate Delivery Strategy and Tip Advice"
---
## Abstract 
Due to the rapid development of online food ordering platforms and rocketing growth of demand, the market is about to saturate soon, and the future trend is to seek efficient utilization of resources. Specifically speaking, food company must have a reliable algorithm to help them produce efficient delivery strategies; individual customers need planning for their decision making in this field. For example, when customers add tip to their order with the sake of controlling or reducing latency. However, few customers know how much tip is enough to reach their desired latency. Therefore, in our paper, we establish a dynamic model to generate delivery strategy for companies and tip advice for customers. We believe that the system we design is more efficient than the currently primitive system. We simulate the delivery process and generate delivery strategies using genetic annealing because it can approach a near optimal solution. High-quality delivery queue ensures that those orders can be delivered within an acceptable amount of time. Next, we construct regressions to find out relationships between multiple factors and latency and then generate the advisory amount of tip. Finally, we plug in those values and desired waiting time, getting the advisory tip price. Multiple indexes suggest that our regression results are accurate and reliable.